<----------------------------------------------------------------------    Capstone Project - Report    ---------------------------------------------------------------------->

Introduction - Background
Data recommendation is one of the foremost fields in machine learning algorithms and is used in plenty of applications today, with the 
most known being in advertising, movies, music and videos.   

Introduction - Problem Presentation
The problem I chose to implement was to let a random user rate already visited places in a predetermined dataset, and using machine
 learning algorithms (more specifally recommender systems) suggest him other places that might interest him in visiting them.
The recommended places will be extracted by the similarity between the rated by him places, and all the other available options from 
the dataset.
This idea could be applied in a real world application which suggests places to visit mainly abroad, based on each individual's preferences.

Data sources
Two datasets will be used for the current problem. 
--> The first one, I decided to create it on my own and includes the exact locations of several neighborhoods (58 in number) in the city I 
am living. 
Of course this problem could be generalized to implemented in any city, or even multiple cities. The locations have been calculated using 
data from google maps and have been passed into a Comma - Seperated values (csv) file. This csv file includes the neighborhood name, 
as well as the latitude and longitude of each location. 
--> The second dataset, is the one acquired for each neighborhood, extracted from the foursquare database, and includes venues around 
each neighborhood. In total we have obtained 4191 different venues to explore for our 58 neighborhoods. There are also 285 unique 
categories of venues.

Data cleaning and Feature selection
For the dataset with the neighborhoods, since I created it myself, it doesn't really need any changes at all.
For the second dataset, the one acquired from the foursquare database it contains several unnecessary data. The only data required for 
our problem is the following:
 - Venue name
 - Venue category
 - Venue location (Latitude, Longitude)
 - The neighborhood where it belongs

Data Analysis and Methodology
First of all we need to create a description of each neighborhood based on the  number of each of the 285 categories of venues it includes. 
This profile contains the frequency of each venue category shown in the venue list.
After that step we may input some ratings for any neighborhood we have already visited. In order to make the recommendation, we have 
used the Content - Based technique, in which the system suggests content similar to the one you liked before. As we know the more places 
you rate, the more accurate the system will be, since it has more information about your preferences. To create the user's profile we calculate 
the dot product of our neighborhoods' ratings and the corresponding description matrix.
The final step is to create a list of recommendations. To achieve that we calculate again the dot product of the vector of user's profile and the 
matrix of the unvisited places. The result is a vector of scores, each one corresponding to the similarity of a place to the user's preferences. The 
higher this value is, the more likely is for the user to fancy that place.

Results
In the last section of the Jupyter Notebook we indicate the top 10 recommended places in a map, by using the folium library. The higher the place 
belongs to the recommendation list, the larger is its circle radius on the map. With red color are noted the already rated places. As we can see on 
the map, the suggested places are widely spreaded all over the region included in our dataset. 

Conclusions and Future improvements
In this problem I explored the relationships between different neighborhoods in a city based on their venues. The most famous categories among 
the venues were  'Cafe', 'Greek Restaurant', 'Bakery' and 'Bar'. 
One way to upgrade our problem is to implement it using cities from multiple countries around the world. This could be used for instance on an 
application for receiving suggestions on a travel abroad, estimated from previous experiences. In that case the initial dataset could also be enriched 
with different kind of data, such as the climate of each city, the altitude, the population density and many more. All the above however increase the 
demands for the required dataset.


THANKS FOR YOUR TIME!
